Work through the following materials this week, making sure that you can do the given activities.

Sections 20.1-20.4.1 & 20.6 — Explain the following.
interleaving vs. parallelism
Parallel processing is whem multiple hardware processors processing multiple processes simultaneously.

Interleaving is when multiple threads run on the same hardware processor, and the execution time is broken up
into blocks and the different processes take turns. 

the lost update and dirty read problems
The lost upadate
"when two transactions that access the same databsae items have their operaions interleaved in a way that makes the value ofsome database items incorrect"
The dirty read problem.
"When one transactiosn updates a database item and then transaction fails for some reason. Meanwhile, the updated item is accessed (read) by another 
transaction before it is chnged back (or rolled back) to its original values)"

transactions, including commits and rollbacks
Transactions:
"A transaction is an atomic unit of work that should either be completed in its entirety or not one at all."
commits:
This signals a successful end of the transaction so that any changes (updates) executed by the transaction can be safely committed ot the 
database and will not be undone"
Rollback:
"This signals that the transaction has ended unsuccessfully, so that any changes or effects that the transaction may have applied to the database must be undone"

the ACID properties
Transactions should have the ACID properties
1. Atomicity: it should be an atomic unit of processing; it should either be performed in its entirety or not performed at all.
2. Consistecy preservation: if the transaction "completely executed from geginning to end without interference fro other transactions, it should take 
the database from one consistent state to another"
3.Isolation: a transactions should appears as though it is executed in isolation. Transactions should not affect the execution of other transactions.
4. Durability or permanency. The changes applied to the database by a committed transaction must persist in the databse. Changes must not be lost 
 because of failure. 

schedule
"A schedule of S of n transaction is an ordering of the operations of the transactions."

Chapter 21 introduction and Section 21.1 — Explain the following.

 lock
Locking data items prevents multiple transaction from accessing them concurrenctly.

two-phase locking
Two states, unlocked, meaning a transaction can access the item. And locked, which prevents a transaction from accesses the data item.

Review Oracle’s Overview of Transaction Processing in PL/SQL (only; you can skip the other sections on this page) — Compare and contrast the following.

SAVEPOINT, COMMIT vs ROLLBACK [TO]
"The COMMIT statement ends the current transaction, making any changes made during that transaction permanent, and visible to other users."
"The ROLLBACK statement ends the current transaction and undoes any changes made during that transaction."
"SAVEPOINT names and marks the current point in the processing of a transaction."

LOCK TABLE vs. FOR UPDATE
"You use the LOCK TABLE statement to lock entire database tables in a specified lock mode so that you can share or deny access to them."
"With the SELECT FOR UPDATE statement, you can explicitly lock specific rows of a table to make sure they do not change after you have read them.
 ...The SELECT ... FOR UPDATE statement identifies the rows that will be updated or deleted, then locks each row in the result set."


