Chapter 1 and 2 Guide

Jesse Hulse

Compare and contrast data, databases, database (management) systems and information systems.

Data: "facts that an be recorded and that have implicit meaning".

Database: a collection of related facts with 3 implicit properties
	1. Represents some aspect of the real world.
	2. a logically coherent collection of data with some inherent meaning.
	3. designed, built, and populated with data for a specific purpose.

database (management) systems: "is a computerized system that enables users to create and maintain data"

Compare and contrast database systems with the following, using the main characteristics of the database 
approach in your discussion.
data structures and algorithms
1. Contrained to only the predefined data structures of the program while a DB can "access divers databases by 
	extracting the database definitions from the catalog and using these definitions"
2. operations are defined in datastructures and algorithms while it is not in a DB system.

traditional file systems
1. "self describing nature of a databse system" (the DB describes the data)
2. In a traditional file system, files are only avalible to the program that runs it. A DB has program-data independence. 
3. Sharing data can be done with a DBMS
4. "support of multiple views", different users can access it at the same time
5. data abstraction
Identify the stakeholders of database systems.
database admins, database designers, end users (people whose jobs require access to the database). 
Naive or parametric end users (those who use predefined transactions to interact with a DB).
Sophisticated end users (those use implement there own system to access the DB)
Standalone users (personal DBs using ready-made packages)
software engineers,

Chapter 2

Explain the significance of the categories of data models. Which type of model is displayed in Figure 2.1?
The type of model dictates how the data is organized and how a user interacts with the data. The relational model.

Explain the structure and significance of the three-schema architecture.
1. Internal level: the internal schema that describes the physical storage structure of the DB.
2. The conceptual level: the conceptual schema desccribes the DB to a community of users.
3. External or view level: external schema shows the relevant data to the user and hides the rest.

Most DB systmes use these three levels in some way.

Explain the tiers used in a typical web-based information systeme
1. The client (user interface): GUI, Web interfaces
2. Application or web Server(application rules): the application programs, web pages
3. The database server (data access)






