Work through the following materials this week:

Read Section 30.1:
Name and explain the for kinds of control measures required for database security.
	1. Access Control: the process of creating username's and passwords for for access to a DB.
	2. Inference control: Stopping unwanted people from querying a statistical DB and infering information from it.
	3. Flow control: A control measure which prevents information from flowing in such a way that it reaches unauthorized users. 
	4. Data encryption: Encoding data so it if falls into the wrongs hands, it cannot be deciphered.

Compare and contrast information security and information privacy.
	1. "Security in information technology refers to many aspects of protecting a system from aunauthorized use, including authentication os users,
		information encruption, access control, firewall policies, and intrusion detection."
	2. Privacy is the ability of induviduals ot control the terms under which their personal information is acquired and used."

	So, security prevents unwanted access or loss/damage to existing data while privacy controls the level of exposure of private data.


Read Imperva’s Top 5 Database Security Threats.
	Name and explain the security threats discussed in the article.
	
	1. Excessive, inappropriate, or unused privileges. When someone has access to data beyound what is needed for them to perform
		their role, then they have excessive privileges. They then can access data that may compromise privacy/security.
	2. Privilege abuse: "users were misusing these privileged service accounts to access sensitive data directly, bypassing the application interface."
		Thus a person with certain privileges may bypass interfaces/security to access the DB directly.
	3. INsufficient web application security: Two common types of web application attacks that target databases are SQL Injection and Web Shell. SQL injection is when there is inproper validation
		and SQL commands entered as data and are run. Web Shell attacks are a stealthy method used to gain unauthorized remote access to a server. Web shells 
		are backdoors that utilize the web server core functionality (serving remote clients) to gain persistent remote access and obtain full or limited 
		control over the server through an to the server’s shell
	4. Weak audit trails: "Here we move into threats caused by insufficient internal processes or gaps. Monitoring data access across the enterprise should be part of any
		production database deployment. The failure to monitor for both security and compliance anomalies and collect the appropriate audit details of database
		activity represents a serious organizational risk at many levels."
	5. Unsecure media storage. When someone access the hardware directly. Sometimes, backed up data may be unsecure.